In this lesson, we'll talk about coding standards and code formatting. In Chapter 1, we also had a
special file for formatting the code, I did not focus on it. It is called
clang format and we will look at it today. We only need the block of code that I added for
the formatting test. First, let 's make additional settings for Visual Studio: we will
show the line numbers of the code file. To do this, go to the menu, tools,
options. In the side menu, select
text editor, all languages ​​and put a checkmark in front of line numbers, click ok. Line numbers
are displayed to the left of the code file. Also in the file, I prefer to see white spaces - these are
spaces or tabs, to display them you need to select the edit item in the main menu,
go to the advanced category and click on view whitespace. The command also has a hotkey:
Ctrl + R, Ctrl + W and now white spaces will be displayed in our code files.
Spaces are displayed as dots. Let's open the unreal engine documentation page in a browser
called coding standards. A link to this page will be below the video. The recommended coding standards
are described here ,
which are used, for example, when developing the unreal engine itself.
In general, when developing a project, we will follow this document, with the exception of a
few things. The first is parenthesis formatting. As we can see it is written here that the war of
brackets is nonsense. This is indeed the case. The only thing you need to do is choose
one of the styles and follow it. On the same project, the formatting style must be the same.
In our project, when writing code, we will wrap the first bracket to a new line.
This style is used in the code of the engine itself. The next important point is indentation.
UE code uses a tab character for indentation. We will use spaces - this is my
subjective opinion on this matter. The code with spaces looks cleaner,
we'll see that soon.
I recommend that you read this document in its entirety. It contains a lot of useful information.
To format the code, we will use clang format - this is a
special file that sets the rules for
formatting the code. This file is added to the project, configured and after that all our
code files will be formatted in the same style. Usually it is configured once at the
start of the project and after that all formatting happens automatically. One
less headache . Let's add this file to the root of our project. I am using total commander. It is
more convenient to work with file extensions in it than in Explorer. We name the file .clang-format.
Create it.
We need to regenerate the project files.
After that .clang-format will be available through the solution explorer.
Open VS, reload solution.
On the left side of the solution explorer file appeared clang-format. We open it.
VS can work with clang-format.
The only thing is that we need to make sure
that it is enabled in the settings. To do this, go to tools, options.
On the left, open the text editor menu, then fall into c / c ++, the formatting category
and check that the enable clang format support setting is enabled. In visual studio it is possible to
customize the formatting without using clang format, but this is not very convenient.
It is more convenient to store formatting rules in a file. If we change the development environment:
we go, for example, to
visual studio code, then we will not have problems with formatting, because all our rules are stored
in a separate file. Clang format is a YAML markup file: each line in
it is "key: value". Let's start with a key called language. Depending
on the value of this key, formatting will be applied to files corresponding to this programming language
. If the project uses one programming language, or you have the same formatting
for all languages, then you do not need to specify this key, the formatting
will be the same for all files. If not, then we can use this key
several times, change the values ​​depending on the programming language and
set up our own formatting for each language .
The next key we need is called BasedOnStyle.
It is responsible for the general formatting style and as its value you can specify one of the
most common styles, for example, google.
To format the file we have selected,
press Ctrr + K, Ctrl + D. Click. The indentation has changed in the code block. One indent is now equal to
two spaces. The open parenthesis is
not on a new line. Let's try a different style. Enter the value
of the microsoft key, press Ctrr + K, Ctrl + D. One indent is now equal to four spaces
and the parenthesis is wrapped to a new line. In general, these two keys are already enough. Subsequent
keying will essentially override key values ​​that are specified in the base style.
Let's take a look at some of them. The IndentWidth key is responsible for the size of the indentation.
For example, set the value to 8. Format. And the number of spaces became equal to 8.
If we change to 2, then this value will be equal to the default google-style value -
two spaces for indentation. We will use a value of 4, which is the most optimal.
It is essentially the default in our microsoft style.
The next key is called UseTab. It determines whether we use a space or a tab character
as indentation . In our style, its meaning will be Never. Let's check the
style with Always Format. Arrows are displayed - tabs.
This style is used in the unreal source code.
When using tabs, spaces will still be used in the source file. We
can see this in our file in the for loop, or when declaring a variable, that is, in this case we
have spaces and tabs. It doesn't look very nice. Plus, in the settings, you can
override the tab width, that is, how many spaces it contains. The key is called TabWidth
For the test, set the value to 6. Format. The indentation looks terrible. For the first lines,
spaces were not enough for one tab. And in the middle we have a mix of tabs and spaces.
Therefore, the UseTab key will have the value Never.
We format the document. Everything looks much neater with spaces
. The key that is responsible for wrapping brackets is called BreakBeforeBraces. Enter the
value of the Attach key
. Format. And the parenthesis doesn't wrap anymore, but we'll set the value that the parentheses wrap.
It's called Allman. The style can be customized very subtly,
for example, parentheses that refer to a function
can have one style, parentheses
that refer to a loop statement, another, and so on. All you need
to do for this is to find the name of the key you are interested in. The
documentation also provides code examples
for each key and its value. You can see how the code will look after it has been formatted.
I will add a few more keys to our clang format. We will not consider them. You can look at the
source code of the project and find the corresponding keys in the documentation. This concludes our review of the clang forma
. It is just a document that is responsible for formatting the code. Let's add another
file to our project. It also existed in our test project from the previous chapter,
Create a New File. We name it .gitignore - this file allows us to specify for git
those files and directories that we do not want to see in the repository.
In our working directory, some folders and files are generated by unreal, so it makes no sense
to store them in the repository. Generated again project files.
The .gitignore file can be quite fine-tuned. Links to documentation will also be below the video.
Reload the solution .gitignore appeared in the explorer tree. Let's take a look at the directories of
our project. The first .vs directory is the visual studio cache. This folder is
generated automatically, we do not need it in version control,
so we can safely add it. To do this, write the name
in the .gitignore file on a new line. Move on. We don't need the Binaries folder. Here are the
files created when compiling the project, for example, dynamic libraries dll, I created the build directory
manually, in which I usually build the game,
so this directory will also go to .gitignore
We need the config folder, this is where the project settings of the engine, editor and game are located ...
We need the
content folder . All assets, all our blueprints are located here. The DerivedDataCache directory is
temporary, we don't need it in the repository.
The Intermediate directory is temporary. Here, for example, is the visual studio project files
that we generate using the .uproject file
The Saved folder is also temporary. It contains various meta information:
logs, backups and other files that we
don't need in version control. The source folder is the most
important, it contains all the source codes of our
game and the last file is the solution visual studio. We don't need it in version control, because
it is generated using an uproject. To prevent files with a specific extension from being included
in version control in gitignore, an asterisk is indicated before the extension. We did this for files of
type solution. We indicate each of the directories
that we do not need on a new line of our .gitignore
and add a forward slash at the end. None of the files from these directories will be included in our repository.
I will leave an additional link below the video. It will lead to a file on github. This is a more
complex, generic gitignore that can be used for any projects built with an
unreal engine. But our simplified version of gitignore should be fine as well.
And the last link is a link to a repository that
describes the blueprint naming style quite well.
The basic approach is as follows:
each unreal asset we create is named as follows:
The first 1, 2 or 3 letters is the class name of this asset. Next is the underscore,
and at the very end is the custom name of the asset.
In the course of the course, we will try to follow this document.
I forgot to say one important thing about the code.
All the first letters of functions, variables, constants in our code will start with a capital letter.
A similar style is used in the source code of the unreal engine.
This concludes the current lesson.